README.md, before:

# Adam James  
Vancouver, BC | adamfergusonjames@gmail.com | (604) 356-6213  

### About Me
Recent Computer Science graduate (Data Science minor) with experience 
building data pipelines, creating interactive visualizations, and 
delivering actionable insights.

### Technical Skills
Python • SQL • Tableau • Power BI • Machine Learning • Git • 
Data Visualization • ETL Pipelines • Azure

## VocalCompare
A tool to allow viewers to visually compare a singer's live performance against their studio recording, seeing where they deviate in pitch and identifying intentional creative choices when performing live.    
<img width="596" height="325" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5da6fe3c-0372-4ee7-a3bf-cdc2dd70a0d9" />    
  
[Video Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mV6k7wrtUsI)  
[Github Repo](https://github.com/adamjames66/VocalCompare)  
    
My Role: Co-developer (2-person team) - Designed the data processing pipeline and implemented the Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) library for audio synchronization. Collaborated on system architecture and visualization components.   
Built For: University of Victoria Course Project (Jan-Mar 2025)

### Features
- Audio synchronization using Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) algorithm
- Real-time pitch visualization dashboard
- Comparison of live performance against reference recordings
- Video playback with synchronized pitch analysis
### Technologies Used
- **Python** - Core programming language
- **Machine Learning** - Dynamic Time Warping for audio sync
- **Data Visualization** - Real-time pitch comparison
- **Audio Processing** - Signal analysis and feature extraction


## Data Visualizations
### Greater Victoria Average Property Cost - **Tableau**  
Interactive map visualization analyzing real estate trends across Greater Victoria municipalities.  
<img width="677" height="423" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/73e45505-8136-4a91-a58b-4692a21d460a" />    

<img width="682" height="438" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b1f4d68d-624b-4851-b49e-45ee95344e58" />  

Insights:  
- Clear geographic correlation between location and pricing  
- Property type drives pricing more than location. For example, Victoria has predominantly apartments and condos, while Oak Bay features mostly detached homes, which explains the significant price difference between municipalities  

[Kaggle Real Estate Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/amanbhattarai695/data-analyst-job-roles-in-canada)   
[BC Municipality Geographic Data](https://catalogue.data.gov.bc.ca/dataset/municipalities-legally-defined-administrative-areas-of-bc/resource/0bd8e3d1-4d7f-4db8-a8b2-2cd4cd051074)     

Built For: University of Victoria Course Project (Feb 2025)  

### Data Analyst Job Postings Across Canada - **Power BI**
Comprehensive analysis of 1,542 Canadian data analyst job postings (early 2025) to identify salary trends and geographic opportunities for new graduates.   
<img width="636" height="361" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/103eabb9-0da0-4c82-b62b-9bed83f295ac" />    

<img width="632" height="357" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d9c149c-c392-4239-a9a4-825603decfe8" />  

Insights:  
- Ontario has highest concentration of opportunities with 878, with 403 of them being in Toronto  
- The average salary for data analyst roles in Canada is $78.79K
- Saskatchewan has the highest average salary for data analyst roles in Canada at $86.22k (16 postings)
- There are 738 unique employers hiring for data analyst roles across Canada and 118 of them are in BC  
  
[Kaggle Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/amanbhattarai695/data-analyst-job-roles-in-canada)

Built For: Personal Project (Sept 2025)

Commit message:

Revise README with updated profile and insights
Updated personal information and enhanced insights in the README.

README.md, after:

# Adam James  
Vancouver, BC | adamfergusonjames@gmail.com | (604) 356-6213  

### About Me
Recent Computer Science graduate with proven experience building data pipelines, designing ETL
workflows, and developing scalable data infrastructure. Skilled in Python, SQL, and business
intelligence tools, with a strong foundation in cross-functional collaboration and delivering data
solutions from conception to production.

## VocalCompare
A tool to allow viewers to visually compare a singer's live performance against their studio recording, seeing where they deviate in pitch and identifying intentional creative choices when performing live.    
<img width="596" height="325" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5da6fe3c-0372-4ee7-a3bf-cdc2dd70a0d9" />    
  
[Video Demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mV6k7wrtUsI)  
[Github Repo](https://github.com/adamjames66/VocalCompare)  
    
My Role: Co-developer (2-person team) - Designed the data processing pipeline and implemented the Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) library for audio synchronization. Collaborated on system architecture and visualization components.   
Built For: University of Victoria Course Project (Jan-Mar 2025)

### Features
- Audio synchronization using Dynamic Time Warping (DTW) algorithm
- Real-time pitch visualization dashboard
- Comparison of live performance against reference recordings
- Video playback with synchronized pitch analysis
### Technologies Used
- **Python** - Core programming language
- **Machine Learning** - Dynamic Time Warping for audio sync
- **Data Visualization** - Real-time pitch comparison
- **Audio Processing** - Signal analysis and feature extraction


## Data Visualizations
### Greater Victoria Average Property Cost - **Tableau**  
Interactive map visualization analyzing real estate trends across Greater Victoria municipalities.  
<img width="677" height="423" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/73e45505-8136-4a91-a58b-4692a21d460a" />    

<img width="682" height="438" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b1f4d68d-624b-4851-b49e-45ee95344e58" />  

Key Insight:  
- Why is downtown Victoria less expensive than other municipalities? -> Many properties in Victoria are single/two bedroom condos, whereas many properties outside of Victoria tend to be fully detatched homes.

[Kaggle Real Estate Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/amanbhattarai695/data-analyst-job-roles-in-canada)   
[BC Municipality Geographic Data](https://catalogue.data.gov.bc.ca/dataset/municipalities-legally-defined-administrative-areas-of-bc/resource/0bd8e3d1-4d7f-4db8-a8b2-2cd4cd051074)     

Built For: University of Victoria Course Project (Feb 2025)  

### Data Analyst Job Postings Across Canada - **Power BI**
Comprehensive analysis of 1,542 Canadian data analyst job postings (early 2025) to identify salary trends and geographic opportunities for new graduates.   
<img width="636" height="361" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/103eabb9-0da0-4c82-b62b-9bed83f295ac" />    

<img width="632" height="357" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0d9c149c-c392-4239-a9a4-825603decfe8" />  

Key Insight:  
- Where should I look for Data Analyst jobs? -> This question depends on what you value, for example Toronto has drastically more positions needing to be filled but Vancouver has a higher average salary. Toronto may be better for entry level roles, while Vancouver may be better for established Data Analysts.
  
[Kaggle Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/amanbhattarai695/data-analyst-job-roles-in-canada)

Built For: Personal Project (Sept 2025)
